---
layout: post
title: Week 51 - Nearly there!
category: DevBlog
tags: DevBlog, weekly
keywords: needsmorepolish nearlythere holodeck tango
---

The dev blog is a little late this week, as Februaryitis kicked in. It's far too cold
to be sitting in my garage on a weekend typing up a blog post, and it's been a busy one.

## Prepping for public release

Much as I would like it to be different, I've got a limited amount of time (and mental effort)
that I can devote to making something product-worthy. I have been hoping to get some of the
big ticket items fixed before releasing Scanner generally - the remaining big three are some
drift-correction on the point clouds coming in, colour correction on the textures, and better
quality meshing.

Given my velocity over the last few months, if I actually focus on all of these, I may get them done
by the end of my second year, and I may not. I'm certainly not going to get them finished in the
next few weeks, and I really want to ship Scanner (and, to some degree, be done with it for the
forseeable future and get on to some other fun stuff!)

So, that's what I'm going to do. I spent most of the week getting Scanner in a state where it's solid
enough to be usable by anyone, and they're going to feel like they got some value for their purchase.
Even if that's only one or two people (and I've had four sales so far!) then that's good enough
for me. I've improved the stability and performance of saving (moving everything into memory streams
instead of writing to device, then reading that back in for the archive step). I've improved the
performance of the pointcloud processing so that I can pass though twice as many points per
depth frame, and still maintain a sensible framerate. And lastly, I've hunted down and resolved
most of the issues with memory hanging around (not all, but most).

It's not great, but it's good enough.

## Next week ...

(well, this week really, as I'm writing this on a Monday morning) ...

General release time. No more prevaricating! 

Then, I'm going to do something new and shiny - I'm going to take a look at Compute Shaders.




